Okay, we went through quite a bit in this module.
We got an understanding of SQL Server availability groups,
and we saw how they can replicate transactions
between the primary and secondaries.
We saw how to deploy a three‑node Kubernetes cluster that
could be used for that availability group.
We saw how to create that availability group on that Kubernetes cluster.
We created one primary replica. We created two secondary replicas,
one synchronous and one asynchronous.
Then, we saw how to connect to that SQL Server availability group.
We saw how to load some data to it, and watched the
replication from the primary to the secondaries.
And we also tested the failover for our primary pod in that availability group.
Before we move on,
I should mention that there are ways this solution could have been
more automated, to take out some of the manual effort required to
run our T‑SQL configuration scripts.
I didn't show that here because of the added complexity
that it would have entailed; however,
you could have taken advantage of Kubernetes init containers, and SQL
Server's SQL Command capability to automatically run some of the
configuration scripts for these SQL Server pods.
Finally,
you can see how Kubernetes was providing the availability here for our SQL
Server pods, and SQL Server availability groups was providing the scale‑out capabilities for SQL Server and the SQL Server database.